For nearly all of American history
Christianity has enjoyed undisputed
dominance over mainstream culture and
media. But with the arrival of the
Information Age the status has begun to
falter as more and more believers find
themselves falling away from the base of
their parents Christian apologetics have
therefore organized a dedicated campaign
of lectures and debates in order to
publicly defend their faith and preserve
their status it's a crucial aspect of
our politically charged culture war with
far-reaching social consequences after
all if God is real especially the
Christian God then we owe it to
ourselves to understand this God and
worship Him as best as we can
it means the Holy Bible is the pure and
righteous Word of God and we all need to
start praying and studying lest we find
ourselves rotting in eternal torment
after this life is over however if God
is not real then it means that millions
upon millions of our friends family
members neighbors and countrymen are all
taking part in a massive self-inflicted
delusion a delusion that not only
demands time money and sacrifice to
sustain itself but also the political
authority to legally impose itself on
everyone else all of us everywhere have
a serious stake in this issue and would
do well to understand it as best as we
can
I'm a professional scientist and
engineer with a doctorate of philosophy
from an accredited American University I
have several publications in refereed
journals and I make a decent living by
solving problems and pushing the limits
of human understanding it's a matter of
professional interest that I understand
what it means to test my beliefs against
the dictates of reality and to correct
them when nature tells me I'm wrong I
have no personal stake in any of the
beliefs I hold but simply in the
rational assurance that whatever beliefs
I do hold are indeed correspondent with
reality
I therefore measure my beliefs through a
well-defined set of epistemic rules and
I make no exceptions under any context
that's what it takes to make new
discoveries and build the knowledge of
humanity
yet when it comes to religious
affiliation you don't have to bother
with any of that stuff at all your
beliefs are practically decided for you
at birth and then ground it on little
more than tradition naive intuition
social pressure and authority
why else would religious faiths around
the world segregate into such distinct
cultural and geographic boundaries this
is entirely unheard of in the world of
physical and mathematical science but
it's practically a defining feature in
the world of religion it's a dead
giveaway that when all is said and done
religious belief has nothing to do with
an objective understanding of reality
but instead is a purely cultural
phenomenon of human making ordinarily
this would not be so terrible except for
one problem by its very nature religion
and especially Christianity is never
satisfied with merely sitting back and
enjoying a life of quiet worship
Christian doctrine itself requires
believers to spread the word to everyone
else and even threatens them with
eternal damnation should they ever
desert the cost this problem is further
amplified by a constant push to exercise
legal force as a blunt instrument for
imposing a narrow interpretation of
Christian morality on to the rest of the
nation
intelligent design traditional marriage
abortion and abstinence only education
are just a handful of the current
political controversies that are heavily
motivated by the religious convictions
of Christian conservatives so if there's
any truth to this stuff at all then it's
a good idea to find out what that truth
is so we can make good decisions
accordingly and if not then abandon
those beliefs and correct them so we can
stop wasting political capital on
pointless dogmatic superstitions that's
why I feel personally compelled to
understand this controversy as best as I
can and to share my professional
insights with the rest of the world not
just to casually analyze a few political
and philosophical arguments but to
critically expose the very core of what
it is that Christian apologetics
ultimately represent it's important to
realize that the debate on God's
existence is more than just a
philosophical controversy between
academic egos it's a battle over the
very rules of epistemology itself
because in the world of science if you
expect to build a reliable understanding
of reality then beliefs must be
rigorously justified in accordance to
very explicit requirements before they
can ever promote the status of knowledge
but when it comes to religion there are
no epistemic rules to speak of no one
converts to Christianity through the
pure force of evidence and argumentation
but plenty of people do convert because
of tradition upbringing and social
pressure so for christian apologetics
the goal is not really to convince
non-believers through brute intellectual
force rather the only meaningful goal of
apologetics is to rationalize the
validity of a preconceived conclusion in
order to slow the ever-increasing tide
of apostasy they do this with good
reason
- there's big money in this stuff and
even tremendous political power but it
only works as long as you can maintain a
reliable pool of gullible believers to
support you that's what makes education
and outspoken criticism so crucial in
this controversy it's the only way to
break the cycle of belief and disrupt
the political machine that works so hard
to intrude on our lives this is also why
religious groups around the world fight
so hard to indoctrinate children at such
young ages it's a deliberate ploy
designed to unite religious affiliation
with personal and social identity giving
up one's religion is never as simple as
casually admitting some trivial
cognitive error but the psychological
equivalent of cutting off an entire arm
or a lake religious criticism is
therefore often met with a
hypersensitive irrational resistance
such that many believers will flatly
refuse to ever change their my
any condition whatsoever for example and
my view here is that the way in which I
know Christianity is true is first and
foremost on the basis of the witness of
the Holy Spirit in my heart and that
this gives me a sailfin Takei ting means
of knowing that Christianity is true
wholly apart from the evidence and
therefore if in some historically
contingent circumstances the evidence
that I have available to me should turn
against Christianity I don't think that
that controverts the witness of the Holy
Spirit this may sound like a harmless
assertion of spiritual faith but it's
also an open admission that facts simply
don't matter that subjective personal
experiences supersede any and all
physical evidence which may ever emerge
to the contrary remember that these are
the exact same people who want the rest
of us to believe as they do and live as
they do people who objective use to even
admit the mere possibility of error in
their beliefs yet insist on legislating
their spiritually based morality onto
the entire nation rather than engage the
discussion sincerely and work together
to formulate a functional understanding
of our universe Christian apologetics
whether they realize it or not are far
more interested in engineering
conformity to a foregone conclusion so
if we're going to take the issue of
God's existence seriously then we need
to remind ourselves that the actual
existence of God himself is not
important if he's real then great let's
believe in him and worship Him and study
him to the best of our ability but if
God is not real then that's great too we
can stop wasting our time at boring
sermons on Sunday start making better
use of our short mortal lives all that
matters is that whatever beliefs we do
hold those same beliefs can justifiably
reflect reality it's a bitter pill of
humility to be sure
but if truth matters then we should all
be able to agree on this much at least
now to be fair Christians do possess a
whole slew of impressive sounding
arguments for God's existence but their
entire position boils down to just that
arguments they're empty words shrouded
in a thin veil of philosophical jargon
without any verifiable power in the real
world that's why it's so easy to
discredit each and every argument that
Christians have ever come up with
because in the world of science when we
want to convince people of a
controversial idea no one ever bothers
with cutesie philosophical rhetoric we
make testable predictions and present
our findings so despite the huge volumes
of sophisticated philosophical posturing
no Christian apologetic has ever
provided a single verifiable instance of
any supernatural force manifesting in
our real physical world it's as if the
entire Christian apologetic tradition is
built on the naive supposition that
merely concluding God is the same thing
as demonstrating him so please join me
as together we dissect the great beast
of Christian apologetics not just
because we have a bone to pick with
Christianity per se but because
Christianity is simply the most well
organized and focused of all the
apologetic tradition doing so brings us
face to face with the very foundations
of knowledge itself and forces us to
enumerate the most basic rules of
epistemology in a concise unambiguous
template only by basing our beliefs on a
functional reflection of reality can we
ever expect our decisions to have a
positive impact in the real world it's a
simple practical question about how
exactly we intend to justify the choices
we make are we going to rigorously hold
ourselves in accordance with strict
epistemic rules and then modify our
beliefs in the face of new ever-changing
information or are we going to measure
our beliefs through the lens of cultural
traditions and subjective personal
perceptions never changing them under
any conditions to speak up the answer we
choose as a nation and as a species will
have the measurable repercussions for
years to come